Add guardrails tutorial (#9054)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ml-commons-plugin/tutorials/bedrock-guardrails.md

---
layout: default
title: Using Amazon Bedrock guardrails 
parent: Tutorials
nav_order: 25
---

# Using Amazon Bedrock guardrails 

> This tutorial demonstrates how to apply your Amazon Bedrock guardrails to your externally hosted models in two ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates how to apply Amazon Bedrock guardrails to your externally hosted models in two ways:
```

- [Using the Amazon Bedrock Guardrails standalone API](#using-the-amazon-bedrock-guardrails-standalone-api)
- [Using guardrails embedded in the Amazon Bedrock Model Inference API](#using-guardrails-embedded-in-the-model-inference-api)

Replace the placeholders starting with the prefix `your_` with your own values.
{: .note}

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, you must create your Amazon Bedrock guardrails. For detailed instructions, see [Create a guardrail](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/guardrails-create.html).

## Using the Amazon Bedrock Guardrails standalone API

Use the following steps to call the Amazon Bedrock Guardrails standalone API.

### Step 1: Create a connector for your Amazon Bedrock guardrail endpoint

> First, create a connector that will interface with your Amazon Bedrock guardrail endpoint. This connector will handle the authentication and communication with the guardrail service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create a connector that will interface with your Amazon Bedrock guardrail endpoint. This connector will handle authentication and communication with the guardrail service:
```

    "session_token": "your_aws_session_token"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "https://bedrock-runtime.${parameters.region}.amazonaws.com/guardrail/your_guardrailIdentifier/version/1/apply",
      "headers": {
        "content-type": "application/json"
      },
      "request_body": "{\"source\":\"${parameters.source}\", \"content\":[ { \"text\":{\"text\": \"${parameters.question}\"} } ] }"
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 2: Register the guardrail model

Now that you've created a connector, register it as a remote guardrail model that will be used to validate inputs:

```json
POST _plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
  "name": "bedrock test guardrail API",
  "function_name": "remote",
  "description": "guardrail test model",
  "connector_id": "your_guardrail_connector_id"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 3: Test the guardrail model

Verify that the guardrail is properly filtering inappropriate content:

```json
POST _plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_predict
{
  "parameters": {
    "question": "\n\nHuman:How to rob a bank\n\nAssistant:"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The response shows that the guardrail intervenes when detecting problematic content and blocks the request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response shows that the guardrail blocks the request when it detects inappropriate content:
```

```json
POST _plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{
  "name": "BedRock claude Connector",
  "description": "BedRock claude Connector",
  "version": 1,
  "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
  "parameters": {
    "region": "your_aws_region like us-east-1",
    "service_name": "bedrock",
    "anthropic_version": "bedrock-2023-05-31",
    "max_tokens_to_sample": 8000,
    "temperature": 0.0001,
    "response_filter": "$.completion"
  },
  "credential": {
    "access_key": "your_aws_access_key",
    "secret_key": "your_aws_secret_key",
    "session_token": "your_aws_session_token"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "https://bedrock-runtime.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/model/anthropic.claude-v2/invoke",
      "headers": {
        "content-type": "application/json",
        "x-amz-content-sha256": "required"
      },
      "request_body": "{\"prompt\":\"${parameters.prompt}\", \"max_tokens_to_sample\":${parameters.max_tokens_to_sample}, \"temperature\":${parameters.temperature},  \"anthropic_version\":\"${parameters.anthropic_version}\" }"
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 5: Register the Claude model

> Register the Claude model with input guardrails enabled. This configuration ensures that all requests to the model are first validated by the guardrail:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Register the Claude model with input guardrails enabled. This configuration ensures that all requests sent to the model are first validated by the guardrails:
```

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register?deploy=true
{
    "name": "Bedrock Claude V2 model",
    "function_name": "remote",
    "description": "Bedrock Claude V2 model",
    "connector_id": "your_connector_id",
    "guardrails": {
        "input_guardrail": {
            "model_id": "your_guardrail_model_id",
            "response_filter":"$.action",
            "response_validation_regex": "^\"NONE\"$"
        },
        "type": "model"
    }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 6: Test the model

> First, test the model with acceptable inputs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, test the model with acceptable input:
```

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_predict
{
  "parameters": {
    "prompt": "\n\nHuman:${parameters.question}\n\nnAssistant:",
    "question": "hello"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The response shows that the call was successful:

```json
{
  "inference_results": [
    {
      "output": [
        {
          "name": "response",
          "dataAsMap": {
            "response": " Hello!"
          }
        }
      ],
      "status_code": 200
    }
  ]
}
```

> Next, test the model with inappropriate inputs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, test the model with inappropriate input:
```

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_predict
{
  "parameters": {
    "prompt": "\n\nHuman:${parameters.question}\n\nnAssistant:",
    "question": "how to rob a bank"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Problematic inputs are blocked by the guardrail:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The inappropriate input is blocked by the guardrail:
```

> 

Reviewer: Line 267: "guardrail" => either "guardrails" or "model". Or use "The response shows that the inappropriate input was blocked:" as on line 360.

```json
{
  "error": {
    "root_cause": [
      {
        "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
        "reason": "guardrails triggered for user input"
      }
    ],
    "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
    "reason": "guardrails triggered for user input"
  },
  "status": 400
}
```

> ## Using guardrails embedded in the Model Inference API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using guardrails embedded in the Amazon Bedrock Model Inference API
```

Use the following steps to use the guardrails embedded in the Model Inference API.

### Step 1: Create a connector for an Amazon Bedrock model containing guardrail headers

> Create a connector that includes guardrail headers in its configuration. This approach embeds the guardrail checks directly in the model inference process. The `post_process_function` is required in order to define the logic for the model to block inappropriate input:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a connector that includes guardrail headers in its configuration. In this approach, the guardrail checks are embedded directly in the model inference process. The `post_process_function` is required in order to define the logic used by the model to block inappropriate input:
```

      "headers": { 
        "content-type": "application/json",
        "x-amz-content-sha256": "required",
        "X-Amzn-Bedrock-Trace": "ENABLED",
        "X-Amzn-Bedrock-GuardrailIdentifier": "your_GuardrailIdentifier",
        "X-Amzn-Bedrock-GuardrailVersion": "your_bedrock_guardrail_version"
      },
      "request_body": "{\"prompt\":\"${parameters.prompt}\", \"max_tokens_to_sample\":${parameters.max_tokens_to_sample}, \"temperature\":${parameters.temperature},  \"anthropic_version\":\"${parameters.anthropic_version}\" }",
      "post_process_function": "\n      if (params['amazon-bedrock-guardrailAction']=='INTERVENED') throw new IllegalArgumentException(\"test guardrail from post process function\");\n    "
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 2: Register the model

Register the model using the connector with embedded guardrails:

```json
POST _plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
  "name": "bedrock model with guardrails",
  "function_name": "remote",
  "description": "guardrails test model",
  "connector_id": "your_connector_id"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Step 3: Test the model

> Verify that the embedded guardrails are functioning by testing with potentially problematic input:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that the embedded guardrails are functioning by testing them with potentially inappropriate input:
```
